Readme.md, before:

# SteamVR Plugin for OpenHMD Drivers

## Build with cmake:

    git clone --recursive https://github.com/ChristophHaag/SteamVR-OpenHMD.git
    cd SteamVR-OpenHMD
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make

OpenHMD is included as a git submodule. An OpenHMD shared library will be built first and the steamvr plugin will link to the OpenHMD library built in `build/external/openhmd/libopenhmd.so`. If you want to package the SteamVR plugin, make sure you have libopenhmd.so in your library search path or package the openhmd library too and change the rpath.

If you use the Vive and want to use the (imperfect) values from https://github.com/OpenHMD/OpenHMD/pull/90, go to external/openhmd and run `git pull origin pull/90/head` before the make step to merge the pull request locally.

## Run:

First register the driver with SteamVR:

    ~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/SteamVR/bin/linux64/vrpathreg adddriver ~/SteamVR-OpenHMD/build

The directory given to vrpathreg should contain `driver.vrdrivermanifest`, `resources/` and `bin/linux64/driver_openhmd.so`.

If you use a HMD for which SteamVR already has a plugin (currently Vive and Oculus Rift), copy the steamvr.vrsettings file that disables those plugins into Steam's config directory.

    cp ~/SteamVR-OpenHMD/steamvr.vrsettings ~/.local/share/Steam/config/steamvr.vrsettings

Don't forget to make a backup if you have special SteamVR settings.

Now run SteamVR and check ~/.local/share/Steam/logs/vrserver.txt for errors.


## Build and run with docker:

    git clone --recursive https://github.com/ChristophHaag/SteamVR-OpenHMD.git
    cd SteamVR-OpenHMD
    docker.sh

This will create a docker container running the same GCC as Steam uses, so the driver will be compatible with Steam runtime libstdc++ library.
The script docker.sh will create the container, build the driver, register it with steam (using `vrpathreg adddriver` as described above) and, if the build is successful, it launches steamVR using STEAM_RUNTIME_PREFER_HOST_LIBRARIES=0 so Steam uses it's own runtime environment to run steamVR.

This method is simpler to build the driver and builds a driver fully compatible with the steam runtime, no matter the distro you're running. You just need to have Docker installed!



## Configuration:

Upstream pull request to follow: https://github.com/OpenHMD/OpenHMD/issues/8

For now. $HOME/.ohmd_config.txt is used.

Example content for a HMD 0, nolo HMD tracker 1, nolo controllers 2 and 3:

    hmddisplay 0
    hmdtracker 1
    leftcontroller 2
    rightcontroller 3

or a single HMD 0 with no controllers

    hmddisplay 0
    hmdtracker 0
    leftcontroller -1
    rightcontroller -1

This defines 4 openhmd devices.

* hmdddisplay is opened for the display config. Choose this for the actual HMD like Vive, Oculus Rift, etc.
* hmdtracker is opened for tracking the head. Choose a different index than the HMD if you have a NOLO tracker (or in the future a Vive tracker).
* leftcontroller and rightcontroller are the indices for the controllers. There are no separate trackers for controllers for now but it's easy to hack in.

If the config file is not available (probably only works on linux), default values are used. Change them in ohmd_config.h.

# TODO

* controller buttons!! currently pressing any button does nothing
* controller models!
* default to first hmd and first two controllers that are found instead of hardcoded values. Experiment with https://github.com/ChristophHaag/openhmddialog
* update tracking data in a separate thread
* vector acceleration values? may improve tracking?

Commit message:

add register and unregister script

Readme.md, after:

# SteamVR Plugin for OpenHMD Drivers

## Before building: Use latest git OpenHMD (optional)

    cd subprojects/openhmd
    git pull origin master

## Build with cmake:

    git clone --recursive https://github.com/ChristophHaag/SteamVR-OpenHMD.git
    cd SteamVR-OpenHMD
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make

OpenHMD is included as a git submodule. An OpenHMD shared library will be built first and the steamvr plugin will link to the OpenHMD library built in `build/external/openhmd/libopenhmd.so`. If you want to package the SteamVR plugin, make sure you have libopenhmd.so in your library search path or package the openhmd library too and change the rpath.

If you use the Vive and want to use the (imperfect) values from https://github.com/OpenHMD/OpenHMD/pull/90, go to external/openhmd and run `git pull origin pull/90/head` before the make step to merge the pull request locally.

## Run (easy for linux):

Run `./register.sh`.

This overwrites SteamVR's settings with a steamvr.vrsettings that disables all SteamVR hardware plugins that ship with SteamVR (Vive lighthouse, Oculus, etc). The current SteamVR config will be backed up to steamvr-config-backup/. Then it registers the current build directory as a SteamVR plugin.

To do the reverse, run `./unregister.sh`.

## Run (detailed for linux, adapt to your operating system)

First register the driver with SteamVR:

    ~/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/SteamVR/bin/linux64/vrpathreg adddriver ~/SteamVR-OpenHMD/build

The directory given to vrpathreg should contain `driver.vrdrivermanifest`, `resources/` and `bin/linux64/driver_openhmd.so`.

If you use a HMD for which SteamVR already has a plugin (currently Vive and Oculus Rift), copy the steamvr.vrsettings file that disables those plugins into Steam's config directory.

    cp ~/SteamVR-OpenHMD/steamvr.vrsettings ~/.local/share/Steam/config/steamvr.vrsettings

Don't forget to make a backup if you have special SteamVR settings.

Now run SteamVR and check ~/.local/share/Steam/logs/vrserver.txt for errors.


## Build and run with docker:

    git clone --recursive https://github.com/ChristophHaag/SteamVR-OpenHMD.git
    cd SteamVR-OpenHMD
    docker.sh

This will create a docker container running the same GCC as Steam uses, so the driver will be compatible with Steam runtime libstdc++ library.
The script docker.sh will create the container, build the driver, register it with steam (using `vrpathreg adddriver` as described above) and, if the build is successful, it launches steamVR using STEAM_RUNTIME_PREFER_HOST_LIBRARIES=0 so Steam uses it's own runtime environment to run steamVR.

This method is simpler to build the driver and builds a driver fully compatible with the steam runtime, no matter the distro you're running. You just need to have Docker installed!



## Configuration:

Upstream pull request to follow: https://github.com/OpenHMD/OpenHMD/issues/8

For now. $HOME/.ohmd_config.txt is used.

Example content for a HMD 0, nolo HMD tracker 1, nolo controllers 2 and 3:

    hmddisplay 0
    hmdtracker 1
    leftcontroller 2
    rightcontroller 3

or a single HMD 0 with no controllers

    hmddisplay 0
    hmdtracker 0
    leftcontroller -1
    rightcontroller -1

This defines 4 openhmd devices.

* hmdddisplay is opened for the display config. Choose this for the actual HMD like Vive, Oculus Rift, etc.
* hmdtracker is opened for tracking the head. Choose a different index than the HMD if you have a NOLO tracker (or in the future a Vive tracker).
* leftcontroller and rightcontroller are the indices for the controllers. There are no separate trackers for controllers for now but it's easy to hack in.

If the config file is not available (probably only works on linux), default values are used. Change them in ohmd_config.h.

# TODO

* controller buttons!! currently pressing any button does nothing
* controller models!
* default to first hmd and first two controllers that are found instead of hardcoded values. Experiment with https://github.com/ChristophHaag/openhmddialog
* update tracking data in a separate thread
* vector acceleration values? may improve tracking?
